Self-Healing Independent File Transfer (Shift)
==============================================

In high-end computing environments, remote file transfers of very
large data sets to and from computational resources are commonplace as
users are typically widely distributed across different organizations
and must transfer in data to be processed and transfer out results for
further analysis.  Local transfers of this same data across file systems
are also frequently performed by administrators to optimize resource
utilization when new file systems come on-line or storage becomes
imbalanced between existing file systems.  In both cases, files must
traverse many components on their journey from source to destination
where there are numerous opportunities for performance optimization as
well as failure.  A number of tools exist for providing reliable and/or
high performance file transfer capabilities, but most either do not
support local transfers, require specific security models and/or
transport applications, are difficult for individual users to deploy,
and/or are not fully optimized for highest performance.

Shift is a framework for Self-Healing Independent File Transfer that
provides high performance and resilience for local and remote transfers
through a variety of techniques.  These include end-to-end integrity via
cryptographic hashes, throttling of transfers to prevent resource
exhaustion, balancing transfers across resources based on load and
availability, and parallelization of transfers across multiple source
and destination hosts for increased redundancy and performance.  In
addition, Shift was specifically designed to accommodate the diverse
heterogeneous environments of a widespread user base with minimal
assumptions about operating environments.  In particular, Shift is
unique in its ability to provide advanced reliability and automatic
single and multi-file parallelization to any stock command-line transfer
application while being easily deployed by both individual users as well
as entire organizations.

For full details of the Shift architecture, see "doc/shift.pdf".
For installation details, see "INSTALL".  For usage details, see
"doc/shiftc.1" (in man page format, viewable with "nroff -man").

Questions, comments, fixes, and/or enhancements welcome.

--Paul Kolano <paul.kolano@nasa.gov>

